USS Enterprise (NCC-1701-D)

"For five hundred years, every ship that has borne the name of the Enterprise has become a legend. This one is no different."

The USS Enterprise (NCC-1701-D) was a 24th century United Federation of Planets Galaxy Class starship operated by Starfleet, and the fifth Federation ship to bear the name Enterprise. During her career, the Enterprise served as the Federation flagship. The Enterprise was destroyed during the Battle of Veridian III in 2371.

==History==
===Construction and launch===
The Enterprise was built at Utopia Planitia Fleet Yards orbiting Mars in the Solar system. The construction was a massive undertaking, involving thousands of people across disciplines. Construction was supervised by Commander Orfil Quinteros. Dr. Leah Brahms was responsible for much of the Enterprise's warp propulsion system design. Some of the Enterprise's components were derived from technology originally developed on the USS Pegasus.

One of the ship's nacelle tube was the site of a multiple murder-suicide while she was still under construction at Utopia Planitia. A member of the construction team, Walter Pierce, became jealous of a former lover's new relationship. He killed the two officers, Marla Finn and William Hodges, then disposed of their bodies in the plasma stream. Pierce committed suicide in the same manner, leaving a telepathic imprint in a bulkhead that was not discovered until 2370.

On stardate 40759.5, in the year 2363, the Enterprise was launched from Mars. On stardate 41025.5, the Enterprise was commissioned.

These stardates weren't mentioned in dialog; they were from the Enterprise dedication plaque.

Final systems completion and shakedown was conducted at Earth Station McKinley. Captain Jean-Luc Picard took command of the ship on stardate 41148 at the order of Rear Admiral Norah Satie.

===Legacy===
Commander Riker was upset over the loss of the Enterprise. Having hoped he would one day command the ship, he was disappointed that he never got that opportunity. However, Picard expressed doubt that the Enterprise-D would be the last vessel to carry the name.

The Enterprise was so dear to Worf that, shortly after being reassigned to Deep Space 9 in 2372, he briefly considered resigning from Starfleet. Station commander Captain Benjamin Sisko expressed regret on the loss of the Enterprise and offered his condolences over the destruction of the ship to Worf, saying the Enterprise "was a good ship."

Captain Picard's belief that the Enterprise-D would not be the final ship to bear the name was borne out with the christening of the Class Sovereign USS Enterprise NCC-1701-E, later the same year. In that instance, the legacy of the Enterprise continued with Picard reprising his role as CO and selecting most of the former crew from the Enterprise-D, with the notable exception of Worf due to his most recent assignment to DS9 (though he temporarily joined the Enterprise-E crew on several of their more notable missions).